<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN'
  'http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd'>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:math="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">

<head>
 <style type="text/css">
 body {
   margin-left: 5%; margin-right: 5%;
 }
 h2 {margin-left: -4%;}
 pre.input_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 pre.output_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 div.output_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 address {
   margin-top: 1em;
   padding-top: 1em;
   border-top: thin dotted;
   font-size: smaller;
 }
 </style>
</head>

	<body>
        <center><h1>Programming in Mathematical Notation</h1></center>
        

<h2>The Program</h2>
<p>
The conversion program is written in Python (I'm using 2.4).  
<p>
</p>
This <a href="prog_in_math-v0.02.tar.gz">tar file</a> contains the  
following files:
<ul>
<li>convert_math.py is the main program</li>
<li>mathml.py contains functions to help read/write the MathML </li>
<li>lang_c.py writes the C++.</li>
<li>greek.py translates unicode values to long names</li>
</ul>
Warning: It's only guaranteed to work on the examples given so far.
</p>
<p>
To use the program, run <code>convert_math.py file.xml</code>  
(or <code>python convert_math.py input_file.xml</code>).  
It will output the text form on stdout, and produce the files 
<code>file.xhtml</code> and <code>file.cpp</code>.
</p>
<h2>Using XML for input</h2>
<p>
The input file as XML can be quite verbose, and be unwieldy to handle, as seen in the input file for the integration example.
One solution is to use a simpler notation, probably similar to the text output.
</p>
<p>
The cycle of edit, translate, refresh the browser to see the results is 
acceptable for some, but ultimately it would be good to have an editor that 
allowed direct entry and rendering of the symbols.
</p>
<br/>
<p>
<a href="random_sampling_int_example.xhtml">Previous page:</a> Example using 
random sampling to approximate an integral.
</p>
<address>
Written by Mark Dewing on July 20, 2005.  Last updated on September 21, 2005.
</address>

	</body>
</html>
