<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN'
  'http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd'>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:math="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">

<head>
 <style type="text/css">
 body {
   margin-left: 5%; margin-right: 5%;
 }
 h2 {margin-left: -4%;}
 pre.input_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 pre.output_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 div.output_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 address {
   margin-top: 1em;
   padding-top: 1em;
   border-top: thin dotted;
   font-size: smaller;
 }
 </style>
</head>

	<body>
        <center><h1>Programming in Mathematical Notation</h1></center>
        

<p>
   Scientific and numerical algorithms are neatly typeset in textbooks and 
papers, with compact mathematical notation.  The scientific programmer
converts that notation into computer code, which tends to be much longer and 
harder
to follow (and harder to verify the correctness).  
There are many regularities in this conversion process that we would like
to relegate to the computer.
</p>
<p>
 <a href="http://www.w3.org/Math/">MathML</a> is a standard for display and interchange of mathematics.  It has two parts - presentation and content.   
The presentation part covers the
display and rendering of math (as expected from the name).  The content part is
concerned with conveying the meaning in a structured form.
</p>
<p>
A Domain Specific Language (DSL) is a special purpose computer language that 
matches
a problem domain closely.   This can make reading, writing, and reasoning about
the correctness of the code much easier.  
</p>
<p>
The goal of this project is to use content MathML as a starting point  
for a DSL for scientific programming.  (Even "scientific programming" is too 
large of a domain, so I will restrict the domain to certain quantum 
and statistical physics problems for now.)
</p>
<p>
 So far, I have a prototype that inputs an XML file and outputs three forms: 
text, xhtml, and C++.
The input file is content MathML with a few additions.
The text output is a vaguely TeX-like text representation.  
The xhtml output is an xhtml file in presentation MathML format.  This is the format that displays neatly in the 
browser.  The third output is a C++ file.
</p>

Contents
<ul>
<li><a href="simple_example.xhtml">Simple function</a></li>
<li><a href="simple_int_example.xhtml">Integration using the trapezoidal rule</a></li>
<li><a href="random_sampling_int_example.xhtml">Integration using random sampling</a></li>
<li><a href="discussion.xhtml">Discussion and the conversion program</a></li>
</ul>


<p>
<a href="simple_example.xhtml">Next page:</a> A simple function

</p>
<address>
Written by Mark Dewing on July 20, 2005.  Last update on September 21, 2005.
</address>

	</body>
</html>
