<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN'
  'http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd'>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:math="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">

<head>
 <style type="text/css">
 body {
   margin-left: 5%; margin-right: 5%;
 }
 h2 {margin-left: -4%;}
 pre.input_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 pre.output_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 div.output_example {
   padding: 1em;
   margin: 1em;
   border: none;
   background: #99CCFF;
 }
 address {
   margin-top: 1em;
   padding-top: 1em;
   border-top: thin dotted;
   font-size: smaller;
 }
 </style>
</head>

	<body>
        <center><h1>Programming in Mathematical Notation</h1></center>
        

This is a simple function call


        <h2>Simple Example</h2>

<p>
The input file for a simple function, f(x) = x + 2
</p>
<pre class="input_example">
&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt;

&lt;program&gt;
&lt;comment&gt;
&lt;p&gt;Example of a function&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/comment&gt;
&lt;!-- should be f(x) = x + 2 --&gt;
&lt;math&gt;
  &lt;declare type="fn"&gt;
    &lt;ci&gt;f&lt;/ci&gt;
    &lt;lambda&gt;
      &lt;bvar&gt;&lt;ci&gt;x&lt;/ci&gt;&lt;/bvar&gt;
      &lt;apply&gt;&lt;plus/&gt;
        &lt;ci&gt;x&lt;/ci&gt;
        &lt;cn&gt;2&lt;/cn&gt;
      &lt;/apply&gt;
    &lt;/lambda&gt; 
  &lt;/declare&gt;
&lt;/math&gt;
&lt;/program&gt;
</pre>

<p>
The "program" and "comment" tags are not MathML.
</p>
<p>
The "program" tag encloses the whole file to make it well-formed XML.
</p>
<p>
Everything inside the "comment" tag is copied to the xhtml output file.  
Consequently the comments can include HTML markup, and could even 
include images or diagrams (in SVG format).  This part feels similar
to some of the aims of literate programming.
</p>

<p>
The text output is simply f(x) = x + 2
</p>

			

<p>
The output in MathML presentation form is
</p>

<div class="output_example">
<p> Example of a function </p>
		<math mode="display" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
			<mrow>
				<mi>
					f
				</mi>
				<mfenced>
					<mi>
						x
					</mi>
				</mfenced>
				<mo>
					=
				</mo>
				<mi>
					x
				</mi>
				<mo>
					+
				</mo>
				<mn>
					2
				</mn>
			</mrow>
		</math>

</div>

<p>

Finally, the C++ output is
</p>

<pre class="output_example">
double f(double x){
    return x + 2;
}
</pre>
<p>
<a href="intro.xhtml">Previous page:</a> Introduction
</p>
<p>
<a href="simple_int_example.xhtml">Next page:</a> An example using the 
trapezoidal rule to approximate an integral.
</p>
<address>
Written by Mark Dewing on July 20, 2005.  Last updated on September 21, 2005.
</address>

	</body>
</html>
